<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
			<p>John found his humane experiment pleasanter than he expected. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carling, as was to be anticipated, demurred a little at the coffee, and still more at the cigarette; but having his appetite for tobacco aroused, and finding that no alarming symptoms ensued, he followed it with a cigar and later on was induced to go the length of “Scotch and soda,” under the pleasant effect of which⁠—and John’s sympathetic efforts⁠—he was for the time transformed, the younger man being surprised to find him a man of interesting experience, considerable reading, and, what was most surprising, a jolly sense of humor and a fund of anecdotes which he related extremely well. The evening was a decided success, perhaps the best evidence of it coming at the last, when, at John’s suggestion that they supplement their modest potations with a “nightcap,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carling cheerfully assented upon the condition that they should “have it with him”; and as he went along the deck after saying “Good night,” John was positive that he heard a whistled tune.</p>
			<p>The next day was equally fine, but during the night the ship had run into the swell of a storm, and in the morning there was more motion than the weaker ones could relish. The sea grew quieter as the day advanced. John was early, and finished his breakfast before Miss Blake came in. He found her on deck about ten o’clock. She gave him her hand as they said good morning, and he turned and walked by her side.</p>
			<p>“How is your brother-in-law this morning?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“Oh,” she said, laughing, “he’s in a mixture of feeling very well and feeling that he ought not to feel so, but, as they are coming up pretty soon, it would appear that the misgivings are not overwhelming. He came in last night, and retired without saying a word. My sister pretended to be asleep. She says he went to sleep at once, and that she was awake at intervals and knows that he slept like a top. He won’t make any very sweeping admissions, however, but has gone so far as to concede that he had a very pleasant evening⁠—which is going a long way for him⁠—and to say that you are a very agreeable young man. There! I didn’t intend to tell you that, but you have been so good that perhaps so much as a secondhand compliment is no more than your due.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much,” said John. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carling is evidently a very discriminating person. Really it wasn’t good of me at all. I was quite the gainer, for he entertained me more than I did him. We had a very pleasant evening, and I hope we shall have more of them, I do, indeed. I got an entirely different impression of him,” he added.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she said, “I can imagine that you did. He can be very agreeable, and he is really a man of a great deal of character when he is himself. He has been goodness itself to me, and has managed my affairs for years. Even today his judgment in business matters is wonderfully sound. If it had not been for him,” she continued, “I don’t know but I should have been a pauper. My father left a large estate, but he died very suddenly, and his affairs were very much spread out and involved and had to be carried along. Julius put himself into the breach, and not only saved our fortunes, but has considerably increased them. Of course, Alice is his wife, but I feel very grateful to him on my own account. I did not altogether appreciate it at the time, but now I shudder to think that I might have had either to ’fend for myself’ or be dependent.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think that dependence would have suited your book,” was John’s comment as he took in the lines of her clear-cut face.</p>
			<p>“No,” she replied, “and I thank heaven that I have not had to endure it. I am not,” she added, “so impressed with what money procures for people as what it saves them from.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said John, “I think your distinction is just. To possess it is to be free from some of the most disagreeable apprehensions certainly, but I confess, whether to my credit or my shame I don’t know, I have never thought much about it. I certainly am not rich positively, and I haven’t the faintest notion whether I may or not be prospectively. I have always had as much as I really needed, and perhaps more, but I know absolutely nothing about the future.” They were leaning over the rail on the port side.</p>
			<p>“I should think,” she said after a moment, looking at him thoughtfully, “that it was, if you will not think me presuming, a matter about which you might have some justifiable curiosity.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, not at all,” he assured her, stepping to leeward and producing a cigar. “I have had some stirrings of late. And please don’t think me an incorrigible idler. I spent nearly two years in a downtown office and earned⁠—well, say half my salary. In fact, my business instincts were so strong that I left college after my second year for that purpose, but seeing no special chance of advancement in the race for wealth, and as my father seemed rather to welcome the idea, I broke off and went over to Germany. I haven’t been quite idle, though I should be puzzled, I admit, to find a market for what I have to offer to the world. Would you be interested in a schedule of my accomplishments.”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” she said, “I should be charmed, but as I am every moment expecting the advent of my family, and as I am relied upon to locate them and tuck them up, I’m afraid I shall not have time to hear it.”</p>
			<p>“No,” he said, laughing, “it’s quite too long.”</p>
			<p>She was silent for some moments, gazing down into the water, apparently debating something in her mind, and quite unconscious of John’s scrutiny. Finally she turned to him with a little laugh. “You might begin on your list, and if I am called away you can finish it at another time.”</p>
			<p>“I hope you didn’t think I was speaking in earnest,” he said.</p>
			<p>“No,” she replied, “I did not think you really intended to unpack your wares, but, speaking seriously⁠—and at the risk, I fear, that you may think me rather ‘cheeky,’ if I may be allowed that expression⁠—I know a good many men in America, and I think that without an exception they are professional men or business men, or, being neither⁠—and I know but few such⁠—have a competence or more; and I was wondering just now after what you told me what a man like you would or could do if he were thrown upon his own resources. I’m afraid that is rather frank for the acquaintance of a day, isn’t it?” she asked with a slight flush, “but it really is not so personal as it may sound to you.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Miss Blake,” he replied, “our acquaintance goes back at least ten years. Please let that fact count for something in your mind. The truth is, I have done some wondering along that same line myself without coming to any satisfactory conclusion. I devoutly hope I may not be so thrown absolutely, for the truth is I haven’t a marketable commodity. ‘A little Latin, and less Greek,’ German and French enough to read and understand and talk⁠—on the surface of things⁠—and what mathematics, history, et cetera, I have not forgotten. I know the piano well enough to read and play an accompaniment after a fashion, and I have had some good teaching for the voice, and some experience in singing, at home and abroad. In fact, I come nearer to a market there, I think, than in any other direction perhaps. I have given some time to fencing in various schools, and before I left home Billy Williams would sometimes speak encouragingly of my progress with the gloves. There! That is my list, and not a dollar in it from beginning to end, I’m afraid.”</p>
			<p>“Who is Billy Williams?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“Billy,” said John, “is the very mild-mannered and gentlemanlike ‘bouncer’ at the Altman House, an ex-prize-fighter, and about the most accomplished member of his profession of his day and weight, who is employed to keep order and, if necessary, to thrust out the riotous who would disturb the contemplations of the lovers of art that frequent the bar of that hotel.” It was to be seen that Miss Blake was not particularly impressed by this description of Billy and his functions, upon which she made no comment.</p>
			<p>“You have not included in your list,” she remarked, “what you acquired in the downtown office you told me of.”</p>
			<p>“No, upon my word I had forgotten that, and it’s about the only thing of use in the whole category,” he answered. “If I were put to it, and could find a place, I think I might earn fifty dollars a month as a clerk or messenger, or something. Hullo! here are your people.”</p>
			<p>He went forward with his companion and greeted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carling and her husband, who returned his “Good morning” with a feeble smile, and submitted to his ministrations in the matter of chair and rugs with an air of unresisting invalidism, which was almost too obvious, he thought. But after luncheon John managed to induce him to walk for a while, to smoke a cigarette, and finally to brave the perils of a sherry and bitters before dinner. The ladies had the afternoon to themselves. John had no chance of a further visit with Mary during the day, a loss only partially made good to him by a very approving smile and a remark which she made to him at dinner, that he must be a lineal descendant of the Samaritan. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Carling submitted himself to him for the evening. Indeed, it came about that for the rest of the voyage he had rather more of the company of that gentleman, who fairly attached himself to him, than, under all the circumstances, he cared for; but the gratitude of the ladies was so cordial that he felt paid for some sacrifices of his inclinations. And there was an hour or so every morning⁠—for the fine weather lasted through⁠—which he spent with Mary Blake, with increasing interest and pleasure, and he found himself inwardly rejoicing over a mishap to the engine which, though of no very great magnitude, would retard the passage by a couple of days.</p>
			<p>There can hardly be any conditions more favorable to the forming of acquaintanceships, friendships, and even more tender relations than are afforded by the life on board ship. There is opportunity, propinquity, and the community of interest which breaks down the barriers of ordinary reserve. These relations, to be sure, are not always of the most lasting character, and not infrequently are practically ended before the parties thereto are out of the customhouse officer’s hands and fade into nameless oblivion, unless one happens to run across the passenger list among one’s souvenirs. But there are exceptions. If at this time the question had been asked our friend, even by himself, whether, to put it plainly, he were in love with Mary Blake, he would, no doubt, have strenuously denied it; but it is certain that if anyone had said or intimated that any feature or characteristic of hers was faulty or susceptible of any change for the better, he would have secretly disliked that person, and entertained the meanest opinion of that person’s mental and moral attributes. He would have liked the voyage prolonged indefinitely, or, at any rate, as long as the provisions held out.</p>
			<p>It has been remarked by someone that all mundane things come to an end sooner or later, and, so far as my experience goes, it bears out that statement. The engines were successfully repaired, and the ship eventually came to anchor outside the harbor about eleven o’clock on the night of the last day. Mary and John were standing together at the forward rail. There had been but little talk between them, and only of a desultory and impersonal character. As the anchor chains rattled in the hawsepipes, John said, “Well, that ends it.”</p>
			<p>“What ends what?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“The voyage, and the holiday, and the episode, and lots of things,” he replied. “We have come to anchor.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she said, “the voyage is over, that is true; but, for my part, if the last six months can be called a holiday, its end is welcome, and I should think you might be glad that your holiday is over, too. But I don’t quite understand what you mean by ‘the episode and lots of things.’ ”</p>
			<p>There was an undertone in her utterance which her companion did not quite comprehend, though it was obvious to him.</p>
			<p>“The episode of⁠—of⁠—our friendship, if I may call it so,” he replied.</p>
			<p>“I call it so,” she said decisively. “You have certainly been a friend to <em>all</em> of us. This episode is over to be sure, but is there any more than that?”</p>
			<p>“Somebody says that ‘friendship is largely a matter of streets,’ ” said John gloomily. “Tomorrow you will go your way and I shall go mine.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” she replied, rather sharply, “that is true enough; but if that cynical quotation of yours has anything in it, it’s equally true, isn’t it, that friendship is a matter of cabs, and street cars, and the elevated road? Of course, we can hardly be expected to look you up, but Sixty-ninth Street isn’t exactly in California, and the whole question lies with yourself. I don’t know if you care to be told so, but Julius and my sister like you very much, and will welcome you heartily always.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, very much!” said John, staring straight out in front of him, and forming a determination that Sixty-ninth Street would see but precious little of <em>him</em>. She gave a side glance at him as he did not speak further. There was light enough to see the expression of his mouth, and she read his thought almost in words. She had thought that she had detected a suggestion of sentimentality on his part which she intended to keep strictly in abeyance, but in her intention not to seem to respond to it she had taken an attitude of coolness and a tone which was almost sarcastic, and now perceived that, so far as results were apparent, she had carried matters somewhat further than she intended. Her heart smote her a little, too, to think that he was hurt. She really liked him very much, and contritely recalled how kind and thoughtful and unselfish he had been, and how helpful, and she knew that it had been almost wholly for her. Yes, she was willing⁠—and glad⁠—to think so. But while she wished that she had taken a different line at the outset, she hated desperately to make any concession, and the seconds of their silence grew into minutes. She stole another glance at his face. It was plain that negotiations for harmony would have to begin with her. Finally she said in a quiet voice:</p>
			<p>“ ‘Thanks, very much,’ is an entirely polite expression, but it isn’t very responsive.”</p>
			<p>“I thought it met your cordiality quite halfway,” was the rejoinder. “Of course, I am glad to be assured of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Carling’s regard, and that they would be glad to see me, but I think I might have been justified in hoping that you would go a little further, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>He looked at her as he asked the question, but she did not turn her head. Presently she said in a low voice, and slowly, as if weighing her words:</p>
			<p>“Will it be enough if I say that I shall be very sorry if you do not come?” He put his left hand upon her right, which was resting on the rail, and for two seconds she let it stay.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said, “thanks⁠—very⁠—much!”</p>
			<p>“I must go now,” she said, turning toward him, and for a moment she looked searchingly in his face. “Good night,” she said, giving him her hand, and John looked after her as she walked down the deck, and he knew how it was with him.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
