<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
			<p>When John went back to the office after the noonday intermission it was manifest that something had happened to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Timson, and that the something was of a nature extremely gratifying to that worthy gentleman. He was beaming with satisfaction and rustling with importance. Several times during the afternoon he appeared to be on the point of confiding his news, but in the face of the interruptions which occurred, or which he feared might check the flow of his communication, he managed to restrain himself till after the closing of the office. But scarcely were the shutters up (at the willing hands of Peleg Hopkins) when he turned to John and, looking at him sharply, said, “Has Dave said anythin’ ’bout my leavin’?”</p>
			<p>“He told me he expected you would stay as long as might be necessary to get me well started,” said John non-committally, mindful of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harum’s injunction.</p>
			<p>“Jest like him,” declared Chet. “Jest like him for all the world; but the fact o’ the matter is ’t I’m goin’ to-morro’. I s’pose he thought,” reflected <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Timson, “thet he’d ruther you’d find it out yourself than to have to break it to ye, ’cause then, don’t ye see, after I was gone he c’d lay the hull thing at my door.”</p>
			<p>“Really,” said John, “I should have said that he ought to have told me.”</p>
			<p>“Wa’al,” said Chet encouragingly, “mebbe you’ll git along somehow, though I’m ’fraid you’ll have more or less trouble; but I told Dave that as fur ’s I c’d see, mebbe you’d do ’s well ’s most anybody he c’d git that didn’t know any o’ the customers, an’ hadn’t never done any o’ this kind o’ work before.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much,” said John. “And so you are off tomorrow, are you?”</p>
			<p>“Got to be,” declared <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Timson. “I’d ’a’ liked to stay with you a spell longer, but the’s a big concern f’m out of town that as soon as they heard I was at libe’ty wrote for me to come right along up, an’ I s’pose I hadn’t ought to keep ’em waitin’.”</p>
			<p>“No, I should think not,” said John, “and I congratulate you upon having located yourself so quickly.”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Timson, with ineffable complacency, “I hain’t give myself no worry; I hain’t lost no sleep. I’ve allowed all along that Dave Harum’d find out that he wa’n’t the unly man that needed my kind o’ work, an’ I ain’t meanin’ any disrispect to you when I say ’t⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Just so,” said John. “I quite understand. Nobody could expect to take just the place with him that you have filled. And, by the way,” he added, “as you are going in the morning, and I may not see you again, would you kindly give me the last balance sheets of the two ledgers and the bill-book. I suppose, of course, that they are brought down to the first of the month, and I shall want to have them.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, cert’nly, of course⁠—wa’al I guess Dave’s got ’em,” replied Chet, looking considerably disconcerted, “but I’ll look ’em up in the mornin’. My train don’t go till ten o’clock, an’ I’ll see you ’bout any little last thing in the mornin’⁠—but I guess I’ve got to go now on account of a lot of things. You c’n shut up, can’t ye?”</p>
			<p>Whereupon <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Timson made his exit, and not long afterward David came in. By that time everything had been put away, the safe and vault closed, and Peleg had departed with the mail and his freedom for the rest of the day.</p>
			<p>“Wa’al,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harum, lifting himself to a seat on the counter, “how’ve you made out? All OK?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” replied John, “I think so.”</p>
			<p>“Where’s Chet?”</p>
			<p>“He went away some few minutes ago. He said he had a good many things to attend to as he was leaving in the morning.”</p>
			<p>“E-um’m!” said David incredulously. “I guess ’t won’t take him long to close up his matters. Did he leave ev’rything in good shape? Cash all right, an’ so on?”</p>
			<p>“I think so,” said John. “The cash is right I am sure.”</p>
			<p>“How ’bout the books?”</p>
			<p>“I asked him to let me have the balance sheets, and he said that you must have them, but that he would come in in the morning and⁠—well, what he said was that he would see me in the morning, and, as he put it, look after any little last thing.”</p>
			<p>“E-um’m!” David grunted. “He won’t do no such a thing. We’ve seen the last of him, you bet, an’ a good riddance. He’ll take the nine o’clock tonight, that’s what he’ll do. Drawed his pay, I guess, didn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“He said he was to be paid for this month,” answered John, “and took sixty dollars. Was that right?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said David, nodding his head absently. “What was it he said about them statements?” he inquired after a moment.</p>
			<p>“He said he guessed you must have them.”</p>
			<p>“E-um’m!” was David’s comment. “What’d he say about leavin’?”</p>
			<p>John laughed and related the conversation as exactly as he could.</p>
			<p>“What’d I tell ye,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harum, with a short laugh. “Mebbe he won’t go till to-morro’, after all,” he remarked. “He’ll want to put in a leetle more time tellin’ how he was sent for in a hurry by that big concern f’m out of town ’t he’s goin’ to.”</p>
			<p>“Upon my word, I can’t understand it,” said John, “knowing that you can contradict him.”</p>
			<p>“Wa’al,” said David, “he’ll allow that if he gits in the fust word, he’ll take the pole. It don’t matter anyway, long ’s he’s gone. I guess you an’ me c’n pull the load, can’t we?” and he dropped down off the counter and started to go out. “By the way,” he said, halting a moment, “can’t you come in to tea at six o’clock? I want to make ye acquainted with Polly, an’ she’s itchin’ to see ye.”</p>
			<p>“I shall be delighted,” said John.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Polly,” said David, “I’ve ast the young feller to come to tea, but don’t you say the word ‘Eagle,’ to him. You c’n show your ign’rance ’bout all the other kinds of birds an’ animals you ain’t familiar with,” said the unfeeling brother, “but leave eagles alone.”</p>
			<p>“What you up to now?” she asked, but she got no answer but a laugh.</p>
			<p>From a social point of view the entertainment could not be described as a very brilliant success. Our friend was tired and hungry. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harum was unusually taciturn, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bixbee, being under her brother’s interdict as regarded the subject which, had it been allowed discussion, might have opened the way, was at a loss for generalities. But John afterward got upon terms of the friendliest nature with that kindly soul.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
