<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
			<p>It was the 23rd of December, and shortly after the closing hour. Peleg had departed and our friend had just locked the vault when David came into the office and around behind the counter.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBe you in any hurry?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>John said he was not, whereupon <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum hitched himself up onto a high office stool, with his heels on the spindle, and leaned sideways upon the desk, while John stood facing him with his left arm upon the desk.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJohn,‚Äù said David, ‚Äúdo ye know the Widdo‚Äô Cullom?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo‚Äù said John, ‚Äúbut I know who she is‚ÅÝ‚Äîa tall, thin woman, who walks with a slight stoop and limp. I noticed her and asked her name because there was something about her looks that attracted my attention‚ÅÝ‚Äîas though at some time she might have seen better days.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the party,‚Äù said David. ‚ÄúShe has seen better days, but she‚Äôs eat an‚Äô drunk sorro‚Äô mostly fer goin‚Äô on thirty year, an‚Äô darned little else good share o‚Äô the time, I reckon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe has that appearance certainly,‚Äù said John.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes sir,‚Äù said David, ‚Äúshe‚Äôs had a putty tough time, the widdo‚Äô has, an‚Äô yet,‚Äù he proceeded after a momentary pause, ‚Äúthe‚Äô was a time when the Culloms was some o‚Äô the kingpins o‚Äô this hull region. They used to own quarter o‚Äô the county, an‚Äô they lived in the big house up on the hill where Doc Hays lives now. That was considered to be the finest place anywheres ‚Äôround here in them days. I used to think the Capitol to Washington must be somethin‚Äô like the Cullom house, an‚Äô that Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> (folks used to call him Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> ‚Äôcause his father‚Äôs name was William an‚Äô his was William Parker), an‚Äô that Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> ‚Äôd jest ‚Äôs like ‚Äôs not be president. I‚Äôve changed my mind some on the subject of presidents since I was a boy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Here <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum turned on his stool, put his right hand into his sack-coat pocket, extracted therefrom part of a paper of ‚ÄúMaple Dew,‚Äù and replenished his left cheek with an ample wad of ‚Äúfine-cut.‚Äù John took advantage of the break to head off what he had reason to fear might turn into a lengthy digression from the matter in hand by saying, ‚ÄúI beg pardon, but how does it happen that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCullom is in such circumstances? Has the family all died out?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal,‚Äù said David, ‚Äúthey‚Äôre most on ‚Äôem dead, all on ‚Äôem, in fact, except the widdo‚Äôs son Charley, but as fur ‚Äôs the family ‚Äôs concerned, it more ‚Äôn <em>died</em> out‚ÅÝ‚Äîit <em>gin</em> out! ‚ÄôD ye ever hear of Jim Wheton‚Äôs calf? Wa‚Äôal, Jim brought three or four veals into town one spring to sell. Dick Larrabee used to peddle meat them days. Dick looked ‚Äôem over an‚Äô says, ‚ÄòLook here, Jim,‚Äô he says, ‚ÄòI guess you got a ‚Äúdeakin‚Äù in that lot,‚Äô he says. ‚ÄòI dunno what you mean,‚Äô says Jim. ‚ÄòYes, ye do, goll darn ye!‚Äô says Dick, ‚Äòyes, ye do. You didn‚Äôt never kill that calf, an‚Äô you know it. That calf died, that‚Äôs what that calf done. Come, now, own up,‚Äô he says. ‚ÄòWa‚Äôal,‚Äô says Jim, ‚ÄòI didn‚Äôt <em>kill</em> it, an‚Äô it didn‚Äôt <em>die</em> nuther‚ÅÝ‚Äîit jest kind o‚Äô <em>gin out</em>.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>John joined in the laugh with which the narrator rewarded his own effort, and David went on: ‚ÄúYes, sir, they jes‚Äô petered out. Old Billy, Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr>‚Äôs father, inheritid all the prop‚Äôty‚ÅÝ‚Äînever done a stroke of work in his life. He had a collidge education, went to Europe, an‚Äô all that‚Äô, an‚Äô before he was fifty year old he hardly ever come near the old place after he was growed up. The land was all farmed out on shares, an‚Äô his farmers mostly bamboozled him the hull time. He got consid‚Äôable income, of course, but as things went along and they found out how slack he was they kept bitin‚Äô off bigger chunks all the time, an‚Äô sometimes he didn‚Äôt git even the core. But all the time when he wanted money‚ÅÝ‚Äîan‚Äô he wanted it putty often I tell ye‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe easiest way was to stick on a morgidge; an‚Äô after a spell it got so ‚Äôt he‚Äôd have to give a morgidge to pay the int‚Äôrist on the other morgidges.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut,‚Äù said John, ‚Äúwas there nothing to the estate but land?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, yes,‚Äù said David, ‚Äúold Billy‚Äôs father left him some consid‚Äôable pers‚Äônal, but after that was gone he went into the morgidge bus‚Äônis as I tell ye. He lived mostly up to Syrchester and around, an‚Äô when he got married he bought a place in Syrchester and lived there till Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> was about twelve or thirteen year old, an‚Äô he was about fifty. By that time he‚Äôd got ‚Äôbout to the end of his rope, an‚Äô the‚Äô wa‚Äôn‚Äôt nothin‚Äô for it but to come back here to Homeville an‚Äô make the most o‚Äô what the‚Äô was left‚ÅÝ‚Äîan‚Äô that‚Äôs what he done, let alone that he didn‚Äôt make the most on‚Äôt to any pertic‚Äôler extent. Mis‚Äô Cullom, his wife, wa‚Äôn‚Äôt no help to him. She was a city woman an‚Äô didn‚Äôt take to the country no way, but when she died it broke old Billy up wus ‚Äôn ever. She peaked an‚Äô pined, an‚Äô died when Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> was about fifteen or so. Wa‚Äôal, Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> an‚Äô the old man wrastled along somehow, an‚Äô the boy went to collidge fer a year or so. How they ever got along ‚Äôs they did I dunno. The‚Äô was a story that some far-off relation left old Billy some money, an‚Äô I guess that an‚Äô what they got off‚Äôm what farms was left carried ‚Äôem along till Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> was twenty-five or so, an‚Äô then he up an‚Äô got married. That was the crownin‚Äô stroke,‚Äù remarked David. ‚ÄúShe was one o‚Äô the village girls‚ÅÝ‚Äîrespectable folks, more ‚Äôn ordinary good lookin‚Äô an‚Äô high steppin‚Äô, an‚Äô had had some schoolin‚Äô. But the old man was prouder ‚Äôn a cock-turkey, an‚Äô thought nobody wa‚Äôn‚Äôt quite good enough fer Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr>, an‚Äô all along kind o‚Äô reckoned that he‚Äôd marry some money an‚Äô git a new start. But when he got married‚ÅÝ‚Äîon the quiet, you know, cause he knowed the old man would kick‚ÅÝ‚Äîwa‚Äôal, that killed the trick, an‚Äô the old man into the bargain. It took the gumption all out of him, an‚Äô he didn‚Äôt live a year. Wa‚Äôal, sir, it was curious, but, ‚Äôs I was told, putty much the hull village sided with the old man. The Culloms was kind o‚Äô kings in them days, an‚Äô folks wa‚Äôn‚Äôt so one-man‚Äôs-good‚Äôs-anotherish as they be now. They thought Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> done wrong, though they didn‚Äôt have nothin‚Äô to say ‚Äôgainst the girl neither‚ÅÝ‚Äîan‚Äô she‚Äôs very much respected, Mis‚Äô Cullom is, an‚Äô as fur‚Äôs I‚Äôm concerned, I‚Äôve alwus guessed she kept Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> goin‚Äô full as long ‚Äôs anyone could. But ‚Äôt wa‚Äôn‚Äôt no use‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is to say, the sure thing come to pass. He had a nom‚Äônal title to a good deal o‚Äô prop‚Äôty, but the equity in most on‚Äôt if it had ben to be put up wa‚Äôn‚Äôt enough to pay fer the papers. You see, the‚Äô ain‚Äôt never ben no real cash value in farm prop‚Äôty in these parts. The‚Äô ain‚Äôt ben hardly a dozen changes in farm titles, ‚Äôcept by inher‚Äôtance or foreclosure, in thirty years. So Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> didn‚Äôt make no effort. Int‚Äôrist‚Äôs one o‚Äô them things that keeps right on nights an‚Äô Sundays. He jest had the deeds made out and handed ‚Äôem over when the time came to settle. The‚Äô was some village lots though that was clear, that fetched him in some money from time to time until they was all gone but one, an‚Äô that‚Äôs the one Mis‚Äô Cullom lives on now. It was consid‚Äôable more‚Äôn a lot‚ÅÝ‚Äîin fact, a putty sizable place. She thought the sun rose an‚Äô set where Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> was, but she took a crotchit in her head, and wouldn‚Äôt ever sign no papers fer that, an‚Äô lucky fer him too. The‚Äô was a house on to it, an‚Äô he had a roof over his head anyway when he died six or seven years after he married, an‚Äô left her with a boy to raise. How she got along all them years till Charley got big enough to help, I swan! I don‚Äôt know. She took in sewin‚Äô an‚Äô washin‚Äô, an‚Äô went out to cook an‚Äô nurse, an‚Äô all that, but I reckon the‚Äô was now an‚Äô then times when they didn‚Äôt overload their stomechs much, nor have to open the winders to cool off. But she held onto that prop‚Äôty of her‚Äôn like a pup to a root. It was putty well out when Billy <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> died, but the village has growed up to it. The‚Äôs some good lots could be cut out on‚Äôt, an‚Äô it backs up to the river where the current‚Äôs enough to make a mighty good power fer a ‚Äôlectric light. I know some fellers that are talkin‚Äô of startin‚Äô a plant here, an‚Äô it ain‚Äôt out o‚Äô sight that they‚Äôd pay a good price fer the river front, an‚Äô enough land to build on. Fact on‚Äôt is, it‚Äôs got to be a putty valu‚Äôble piece o‚Äô prop‚Äôty, more ‚Äôn she cal‚Äôlates on, I reckon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Here <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum paused, pinching his chin with thumb and index finger, and mumbling his tobacco. John, who had listened with more attention than interest‚ÅÝ‚Äîwondering the while as to what the narrative was leading up to‚ÅÝ‚Äîthought something might properly be expected of him to show that he had followed it, and said, ‚ÄúSo <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝCullom has kept this last piece clear, has she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù said David, bringing down his right hand upon the desk with emphasis, ‚Äúthat‚Äôs jest what she hain‚Äôt done, an‚Äô that‚Äôs how I come to tell ye somethin‚Äô of the story, an‚Äô more on‚Äôt ‚Äôn you‚Äôve cared about hearin‚Äô, mebbe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot at all,‚Äù John protested. ‚ÄúI have been very much interested.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have, have you?‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum. ‚ÄúWa‚Äôal, I got somethin‚Äô I want ye to do. Day after to-morro‚Äô ‚Äôs Chris‚Äômus, an‚Äô I want ye to drop Mis‚Äô Cullom a line, somethin‚Äô like this, ‚ÄòThat <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum told ye to say that that morgidge he holds, havin‚Äô ben past due fer some time, an‚Äô no int‚Äôrist havin‚Äô ben paid fer, let me see, more‚Äôn a year, he wants to close the matter up, an‚Äô he‚Äôll see her Chris‚Äômus mornin‚Äô at the bank at nine o‚Äôclock, he havin‚Äô more time on that day; but that, as fur as he can see, the bus‚Äônis won‚Äôt take very long‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomethin‚Äô like that, you understand?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well, sir,‚Äù said John, hoping that his employer would not see in his face the disgust and repugnance he felt as he surmised what a scheme was on foot, and recalled what he had heard of Harum‚Äôs hard and unscrupulous ways, though he had to admit that this, excepting perhaps the episode of the counterfeit money, was the first revelation to him personally. But this seemed very bad to him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right,‚Äù said David cheerfully, ‚ÄúI s‚Äôpose it won‚Äôt take you long to find out what‚Äôs in your stockin‚Äô, an‚Äô if you hain‚Äôt nothin‚Äô else to do Chris‚Äômus mornin‚Äô I‚Äôd like to have you open the office and stay ‚Äôround a spell till I git through with Mis‚Äô Cullom. Mebbe the‚Äô ‚Äôll be some papers to fill out or witniss or somethin‚Äô; an‚Äô have that skeezicks of a boy make up the fires so‚Äôst the place‚Äôll be warm.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery good, sir,‚Äù said John, hoping that the interview was at an end.</p>
			<p>But the elder man sat for some minutes apparently in a brown study, and occasionally a smile of sardonic cunning wrinkled his face. At last he said: ‚ÄúI‚Äôve told ye so much that I may as well tell ye how I come by that morgidge. ‚ÄôTwont take but a minute, an‚Äô then you can run an‚Äô play,‚Äù he added with a chuckle.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI trust I have not betrayed any impatience,‚Äù said John, and instantly conscious of his infelicitous expression, added hastily, ‚ÄúI have really been very much interested.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, no,‚Äù was the reply, ‚Äúyou hain‚Äôt <em>betrayed</em> none, but I know old fellers like me gen‚Äôrally tell a thing twice over while they‚Äôre at it. Wa‚Äôal,‚Äù he went on, ‚Äúit was like this. After Charley Cullom got to be some grown he helped to keep the pot a-bilin‚Äô, ‚Äôn they got on some better. ‚ÄôBout seven year ago, though, he up an‚Äô got married, an‚Äô then the fat ketched fire. Finally he allowed that if he had some money he‚Äôd go West ‚Äôn take up some land, ‚Äôn git along like pussly ‚Äôn a flower gard‚Äôn. He ambitioned that if his mother ‚Äôd raise a thousan‚Äô dollars on her place he‚Äôd be sure to take care of the int‚Äôrist, an‚Äô prob‚Äôly pay off the princ‚Äôple in almost no time. Wa‚Äôal, she done it, an‚Äô off he went. She didn‚Äôt come to me fer the money, because‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI dunno‚ÅÝ‚Äîat any rate she didn‚Äôt, but got it of ‚ÄôZeke Swinney.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal, it turned out jest ‚Äôs any fool might ‚Äôve predilictid, fer after the first year, when I reckon he paid it out of the thousan‚Äô, Charley never paid no int‚Äôrist. The second year he was jest gettin‚Äô goin‚Äô, an‚Äô the next year he lost a hoss jest as he was cal‚Äôlatin‚Äô to pay, an‚Äô the next year the grasshoppers smote him, ‚Äôn so on; an‚Äô the outcome was that at the end of five years, when the morgidge had one year to run, Charley‚Äôd paid one year, an‚Äô she‚Äôd paid one, an‚Äô she stood to owe three years‚Äô int‚Äôrist. How old Swinney come to hold off so was that she used to pay the cuss ten dollars or so ev‚Äôry six months ‚Äôn git no credit fer it, an‚Äô no receipt an‚Äô no witniss, ‚Äôn he knowed the prop‚Äôty was improving all the time. He may have had another reason, but at any rate he let her run, and got the shave reg‚Äôlar. But at the time I‚Äôm tellin‚Äô you about he‚Äôd begun to cut up, an‚Äô allowed that if she didn‚Äôt settle up the int‚Äôrist he‚Äôd foreclose, an‚Äô I got wind on‚Äôt an‚Äô I run across her one day an‚Äô got to talkin‚Äô with her, an‚Äô she gin me the hull narration. ‚ÄòHow much do you owe the old critter?‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòA hunderd an‚Äô eighty dollars,‚Äô she says, ‚Äòan‚Äô where I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to git it,‚Äô she says, ‚Äòthe Lord only knows.‚Äô ‚ÄòAn‚Äô He won‚Äôt tell ye, I reckon,‚Äô I says. Wa‚Äôal, of course I‚Äôd known that Swinney had a morgidge because it was a matter of record, an‚Äô I knowed him well enough to give a guess what his game was goin‚Äô to be, an‚Äô more‚Äôn that I‚Äôd had my eye on that piece an‚Äô parcel an‚Äô I figured that he wa‚Äôn‚Äôt any likelier a citizen ‚Äôn I was.‚Äù (‚ÄúYes,‚Äù said John to himself, ‚Äúwhere the carcase is the vultures are gathered together.‚Äù)</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWa‚Äôal,‚Äô I says to her, after we‚Äôd had a little more talk, ‚Äòs‚Äôposen you come ‚Äôround to my place to-morro‚Äô ‚Äôbout ‚Äôleven o‚Äôclock, an‚Äô mebbe we c‚Äôn cipher this thing out. I don‚Äôt say positive that we kin,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòbut mebbe, mebbe.‚Äô So that afternoon I sent over to the county seat an‚Äô got a description an‚Äô had a second morgidge drawed up fer two hundred dollars, an‚Äô Mis‚Äô Cullom signed it mighty quick. I had the morgidge made one day after date, ‚Äôcause, as I said to her, it was in the nature of a temp‚Äôrary loan, but she was so tickled she‚Äôd have signed most anythin‚Äô at that pertic‚Äôler time. ‚ÄòNow,‚Äô I says to her, ‚Äòyou go an‚Äô settle with old Step-an‚Äô-fetch-it, but don‚Äôt you say a word where you got the money,‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòDon‚Äôt ye let on nothin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîstretch that conscience o‚Äô your‚Äôn if nes‚Äôsary,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòan‚Äô be pertic‚Äôler if he asks you if Dave Harum give ye the money you jest say, ‚ÄúNo, he didn‚Äôt.‚Äù That wont be no lie,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòbecause I aint <em>givin‚Äô</em> it to ye,‚Äô I says. Wa‚Äôal, she done as I told her. Of course Swinney suspicioned fust off that I was mixed up in it, but she stood him off so fair an‚Äô square that he didn‚Äôt know jest what <em>to</em> think, but his claws was cut fer a spell, anyway.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal, things went on fer a while, till I made up my mind that I ought to relieve Swinney of some of his anxieties about worldly bus‚Äônis, an‚Äô I dropped in on him one mornin‚Äô an‚Äô passed the time o‚Äô day, an‚Äô after we‚Äôd eased up our minds on the subjects of each other‚Äôs health an‚Äô suchlike I says, ‚ÄòYou hold a morgidge on the Widder Cullom‚Äôs place, don‚Äôt ye?‚Äô Of course he couldn‚Äôt say nothin‚Äô but ‚Äòyes.‚Äô ‚ÄòDoes she keep up the int‚Äôrist all right?‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòI don‚Äôt want to be pokin‚Äô my nose into your bus‚Äônis,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòan‚Äô don‚Äôt tell me nothin‚Äô you don‚Äôt want to.‚Äô Wa‚Äôal, he knowed Dave Harum was Dave Harum, an‚Äô that he might ‚Äôs well spit it out, an‚Äô he says, ‚ÄòWa‚Äôal, she didn‚Äôt pay nothin‚Äô fer a good while, but last time she forked over the hull amount. ‚ÄòBut I hain‚Äôt no notion,‚Äô he says, ‚Äòthat she‚Äôll come to time agin.‚Äô ‚ÄòAn‚Äô s‚Äôposin‚Äô she don‚Äôt,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòyou‚Äôll take the prop‚Äôty, won‚Äôt ye?‚Äô ‚ÄòDon‚Äôt see no other way,‚Äô he says, an‚Äô lookin‚Äô up quick, ‚Äòunless you overbid me,‚Äô he says. ‚ÄòNo,‚Äô I says, ‚ÄòI ain‚Äôt buyin‚Äô no real estate jest now, but the thing I come in fer,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòleavin‚Äô out the pleasure of havin‚Äô a talk with you, was to say that I‚Äôd take that morgidge off‚Äôm your hands.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal, sir, he, he, he, he! Scat my ‚∏ª! At that he looked at me fer a minute with his jaw on his neck, an‚Äô then he hunched himself, ‚Äôn drawed in his neck like a mud turtle. ‚ÄòNo,‚Äô he says, ‚ÄòI ain‚Äôt sufferin‚Äô fer the money, an‚Äô I guess I‚Äôll keep the morgidge. It‚Äôs putty near due now, but mebbe I‚Äôll let it run a spell. I guess the secur‚Äôty‚Äôs good fer it.‚Äô ‚ÄòYes,‚Äô I says, ‚ÄòI reckon you‚Äôll let it run long enough fer the widder to pay the taxes on‚Äôt once more anyhow; I guess the secur‚Äôty‚Äôs good enough to take that resk; but how ‚Äôbout <em>my</em> secur‚Äôty?‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòWhat d‚Äôyou mean?‚Äô he says. ‚ÄòI mean,‚Äô says I, ‚Äòthat I‚Äôve got a second morgidge on that prop‚Äôty, an‚Äô I begin to tremble fer my secur‚Äôty. You‚Äôve jest told me,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòthat you‚Äôre goin‚Äô to foreclose an‚Äô I cal‚Äôlate to protect myself, an‚Äô I <em>don‚Äôt</em> cal‚Äôlate,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòto have to go an‚Äô bid on that prop‚Äôty, an‚Äô put in a lot more money to save my investment, unless I‚Äôm ‚Äôbleeged to‚ÅÝ‚Äînot <em>much</em>! an‚Äô you can jest sign that morgidge over to me, an‚Äô the sooner the quicker,‚Äô I says.‚Äù</p>
			<p>David brought his hand down on his thigh with a vigorous slap, the fellow of the one which, John could imagine, had emphasized his demand upon Swinney. The story, to which he had at first listened with polite patience merely, he had found more interesting as it went on, and, excusing himself, he brought up a stool, and mounting it, said, ‚ÄúAnd what did Swinney say to that?‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHarum emitted a gurgling chuckle, yawned his quid out of his mouth, tossing it over his shoulder in the general direction of the waste basket, and bit off the end of a cigar which he found by slapping his waistcoat pockets. John got down and fetched him a match, which he scratched in the vicinity of his hip pocket, lighted his cigar (John declining to join him on some plausible pretext, having on a previous occasion accepted one of the brand), and after rolling it around with his lips and tongue to the effect that the lighted end described sundry eccentric curves, located it firmly with an upward angle in the left-hand corner of his mouth, gave it a couple of vigorous puffs, and replied to John‚Äôs question.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal, ‚ÄôZeke Swinney was a perfesser of religion some years ago, an‚Äô mebbe he is now, but what he said to me on this pertic‚Äôler occasion was that he‚Äôd see me in hell fust, an‚Äô <em>then</em> he wouldn‚Äôt.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWa‚Äôal,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòmebbe you won‚Äôt, mebbe you will, it‚Äôs alwus a pleasure to meet ye,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòbut in that case this morgidge bus‚Äônis‚Äôll be a question fer our executors,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòfer <em>you</em> don‚Äôt never foreclose that morgidge, an‚Äô don‚Äôt you fergit it,‚Äô I says.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòOh, you‚Äôd like to git holt o‚Äô that prop‚Äôty yourself. I see what you‚Äôre up to,‚Äô he says.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòLook a-here, ‚ÄôZeke Swinney,‚Äô I says, ‚ÄòI‚Äôve got an int‚Äôrist in that prop‚Äôty, an‚Äô I propose to p‚Äôtect it. You‚Äôre goin‚Äô to sign that morgidge over to me, or I‚Äôll foreclose and surrygate ye,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòunless you allow to bid in the prop‚Äôty, in which case we‚Äôll see whose weasel-skin‚Äôs the longest. But I guess it won‚Äôt come to that,‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòYou kin take your choice,‚Äô I says. ‚ÄòWhether I want to git holt o‚Äô that prop‚Äôty myself ain‚Äôt neither here nor there. Mebbe I do, an‚Äô mebbe I don‚Äôt, but anyways,‚Äô I says, ‚Äò<em>you</em> don‚Äôt git it, nor wouldn‚Äôt ever, for if I can‚Äôt make you sign over, I‚Äôll either do what I said or I‚Äôll back the widder in a defence fer usury. Put that in your pipe an‚Äô smoke it,‚Äô I says.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat do you mean?‚Äô he says, gittin‚Äô half out his chair.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòI mean this,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòthat the fust six months the widder couldn‚Äôt pay she gin you ten dollars to hold off, an‚Äô the next time she gin you fifteen, an‚Äô that you‚Äôve bled her fer shaves to the tune of sixty odd dollars in three years, an‚Äô then got your int‚Äôrist in full.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat riz him clean out of his chair,‚Äù said David. ‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòShe can‚Äôt prove it,‚Äô he says, shakin‚Äô his fist in the air.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòOh, ho! ho!‚Äô I says, tippin‚Äô my chair back agin the wall. ‚ÄòIf Mis‚Äô Cullom was to swear how an‚Äô where she paid you the money, givin‚Äô chapter an‚Äô verse, and showin‚Äô her own mem‚Äôrandums even, an‚Äô I was to swear that when I twitted you with gittin‚Äô it you didn‚Äôt deny it, but only said that she couldn‚Äôt <em>prove</em> it, how long do you think it ‚Äôould take a Freeland County jury to find agin ye? I allow, ‚ÄôZeke Swinney,‚Äô I says, ‚Äòthat you wa‚Äôn‚Äôt born yestyd‚Äôy, but you ain‚Äôt so old as you look, not by a dum sight!‚Äô an‚Äô then how I did laugh!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWa‚Äôal,‚Äù said David, as he got down off the stool and stretched himself, yawning, ‚ÄúI guess I‚Äôve yarned it enough fer one day. Don‚Äôt fergit to send Mis‚Äô Cullom that notice, an‚Äô make it up an‚Äô up. I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to git the thing off my mind this trip.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well, sir,‚Äù said John, ‚Äúbut let me ask, did Swinney assign the mortgage without any trouble?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúO Lord! yes,‚Äù was the reply. ‚ÄúThe‚Äô wa‚Äôn‚Äôt nothin‚Äô else fer him to do. I had another twist on him that I hain‚Äôt mentioned. But he put up a great show of doin‚Äô it to obleege me. Wa‚Äôal, I thanked him an‚Äô so on, an‚Äô when we‚Äôd got through I ast him if he wouldn‚Äôt step over to the Eagil an‚Äô take somethin‚Äô, an‚Äô he looked kind o‚Äô shocked an‚Äô said he never drinked nothin‚Äô. It was ‚Äôgin his princ‚Äôples, he said. Ho, ho, ho, ho! Scat my ‚∏ª! Princ‚Äôples!‚Äù and John heard him chuckling to himself all the way out of the office.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
