<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Epilogue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="epilogue" epub:type="epilogue">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epilogue</h2>
			<p>I might, in conclusion, tell how John’s further life in Homeville was of comparatively short duration; how David died of injuries received in a runaway accident; how John found himself the sole executor of his late partner’s estate, and, save for a life provision for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bixbee, the only legatee, and rich enough (if indeed with his own and his wife’s money he had not been so before) to live wherever he pleased. But as heretofore I have confined myself strictly to facts, I am, to be consistent, constrained to abide by them now. Indeed, I am too conscientious to do otherwise, notwithstanding the temptation to make what might be a more artistic ending to my story. David is not only living, but appears almost no older than when we first knew him, and is still just as likely to “git goin’ ” on occasion. Even “old Jinny” is still with us, though her master does most of his “joggin’ ’round” behind a younger horse. Whatever <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harum’s testamentary intentions may be, or even whether he has made a will or not, nobody knows but himself and his attorney. Aunt Polly⁠—well, there is a little more of her than when we first made her acquaintance, say twenty pounds.</p>
			<p>John and his wife live in a house which they built on the shore of the lake. It is a settled thing that David and his sister dine with them every Sunday. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bixbee at first looked a little askance at the wine on the table, but she does not object to it now. Being a “son o’ temp’rence,” she has never been induced to taste any champagne, but on one occasion she was persuaded to take the smallest sip of claret. “Wa’al,” she remarked with a wry face, “I guess the’ can’t be much sin or danger ’n drinkin’ anythin’ ’t tastes the way <em>that</em> does.”</p>
			<p>She and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lenox took to each other from the first, and the latter has quite supplanted (and more) Miss Claricy (<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Elton) with David. In fact, he said to our friend one day during the first year of the marriage, “Say, John, I ain’t sure but what we’ll have to hitch that wife o’ your’n on the off side.”</p>
			<p>I had nearly forgotten one person whose conversation has yet to be recorded in print, but which is considered very interesting by at least four people. His name is David Lenox.</p>
			<p>I think that’s all.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
